So this is the page that shows all
the places you can deploy an Astro site.
And like I said,
you can deploy virtually anywhere.
Because by default,
an Astro site is HTML and CSS and
like client-side JavaScript, any CDN is
a great place to deploy an Astro site.
So if your company has some
kind of like cloud storage and
S3 bucket or you're using Azure or
Google Cloud.
If you've got the ability to do an S
some equivalent of a storage bucket and
a CDN, you're good to go.
You can deploy an Astro site, you don't
need to get special infrastructure,
you don't need to provision new deployment
servers, or new environments, or
anything like that.
You just put it up on your
CDN that already works.
It's gonna be great.
This is a trick that I used over and
over again when I worked at IBM.
Static sites don't have to go through the
same kinds of rigorous deployment reviews.
So you can just ship something and
not fight with everybody else on your
team about whether or not it's secure.
Because HTML, CSS, they're just secure.
You can't hack an HTML file,
you can deface it but
like you're not getting
through to the server.
[LAUGH] So you have a lot of
options with Astro built in and
once you've built the assets,
you can just deploy them wherever
you want as long as it has support for
that static files.
The most common options I've
seen are tools like Netlify or
Vercel, render Cloud flare pages and AWS.
But you've got a lot of options.
You can use any one of these or
roll your own if you want.
If you are interested in
building one of these,
if your company is a hosting provider and
you want to run Astro,
the code under the hood for
one of these is not super intense.
You just have to tell Astro
how does the server work and
this is what it looks like.
So these are all open source you can go
find, I think they're all open source,
you can go find them and check them out.
I'm gonna be using Netlify today you are
welcome to use whatever your favorite is
we're going on preferences, not this is
what I enjoy, not like a dogmatic choice.
I don't care, you do you.
So the way this actually works is
we've got that Astro CLI again.
And so I'm just gonna run,
let me collapse this down, and
we're gonna open up the command line here.
And I'm going to say
npx astro add netlify.
And it's going to ask me if I
want to install this package.
And I do.
And then it's going to ask
if I wanna update my config,
gives me a Netlify adapter and I do.
And that's kind of it on the Astro site,
it's ready to go.
So then I'm going to commit my changes, so
we're gonna git add everything and
we'll git commits and
say, site ready to deploy.
I'm gonna push that up.
And so, we're on the workshop branch, so
what I'm gonna do is if
you haven't forked it yet
you can actually GitHub repo
fork to get your own copy and
it's going to allow you to
create a new fork of the repo.
Would I like to add a remote?
Yes, I do.
So then I'm going to git push origin.
Actually, I'm gonna rename
this to main just for
the sake of not having to like
go specify a specific branch.
So I'm gonna call this branch main and
then I'm gonna git push origin Main.
And if I go to that repo now,
so github.com.
jlengstorf and
then I've got astro-frontend-masters,
I now have this, this is the repo,
this is what we pushed up and
it's ready to rock.
So from there I can get over
to the Netlify site. So, over to
app.netlify.com I don't know
why collapse that down.
And I can add a new site, so I will import
an existing project let's say you get
something in from Git and I'm gonna
click GitHub because that's where I sent
everything and I can search for Astro.
I have a lot of repos so
this takes a while.
And here's the one.
Okay, so
it's gonna deploy this main branch.
It would let me deploy any
of the others if I wanted.
And it auto detected that
this is an Astro site, so
I don't have to change any settings,
I can just hit deploy.
And now it's gonna do
its deployment thing and
this should take about 30 seconds all and
I think.
And that 30 seconds includes all the setup
and tear down of, of the Netlify servers.
I wanna point out if I
can get it to hold still.
This building,
the Astro site itself took 1.08 seconds.
Now granted we're not like this is,
with the products and the blog and
everything, we're looking at
maybe like 10, 15 pages tops.
But it's pretty dang cool
that this just works, right?
It didn't require us to do a lot.
It's very, very fast.
This is powered by Vite, under the hood.
So we get a lot of that just screaming
fast performance that Vite is supplying for
folks.
And that is all the way done.
So let's see,
how long did this take total?
Remember, this is our first deploy.
So 25 seconds with no cache, no nothing.
It's just very fast to deploy Astro sites.
And the slowdown will come in as you start
to add more and more complex queries and
you're parsing more and more data as
part of your deployment pipeline.
So you can make anything slow.
But the thing I like is that by default,
these deployments are extremely fast.
And now that we've got that, there we go.
We're live, we're in production.
So this is now up live
at Stupendous Halva And
then this hash.netlify.app.